=========================================================================================
The Collaboration principle: Supporting OHS collaboration & cross-sectorial communication
=========================================================================================

.. _purpose-1:

Purpose
-------

The collaboration principle defines that collaboration and mutual
understanding are the foundations for all cross-sector One Health
activities. The tools and practices collected under this principle
enable inter-sector communication and help to overcome barriers to
collaboration e.g. resistance to changes to intra-sector traditions. For
example, a cross-sector OHS glossary supports communication by
supporting efforts to find a shared language and unambiguous terminology
across sectors to avoid misunderstandings. The OHS idea catalogue
describing successful cross-sector surveillance initiatives in different
countries will support the belief in self-efficacy by demonstrating that
when there is a will, there is way. The experience-sharing will
encourage discussions and may lead to new solutions for collaborative
approaches supporting OHS.


.. _scope-1:

Scope
-----

The resources provided within this principle are meant to be generically
applicable for surveillance purposes in all OH sectors, including those
sectors that were not directly involved in the development process e.g.
the environmental sector. In addition they are meant to be applicable to
all European countries, geographic areas and administrative levels.


Methods
-------

OHEJP Glossary
''''''''''''''
   
   The OHEJP Glossary is a freely available online resource that
   comprises an extensive list of OHS-related terms and definitions. The
   interface of the glossary allows users to search and filter for
   entries in the glossary. It further provides a reference to the
   source of each definition and an Unique Resource Identifier (URI) for
   specific referencing of each glossary entry. The purpose of the OHEJP
   Glossary is primarily to highlight differences and similarities in
   the interpretation of terms used by different OH sectors, disciplines
   and stakeholders. It does not aim to create harmonized definitions of
   OHS-related terms. The OHEJP Glossary is developed and maintained as
   a collaborative effort of three EJP projects, namely ORION, NOVA and
   COHESIVE, with support from OH experts of EJP stakeholders. Link:
   https://foodrisklabs.bfr.bund.de/ohejp-glossary/

   Additionally, OHS-related terms and definitions from the OHEJP
   Glossary can be easily retrieved in an automatic way thanks to the
   **Glossaryfication** web service. This online infrastructure can be
   particularly useful during the creation of OH reports for which OH
   glossaries are needed. The Glossaryfication web service, based on
   text processing technologies, allows automatic search within any
   user-provided text documents for terms that are contained in the
   OHEJP Glossary. The main output is a downloadable list of matching
   glossary terms as well as their corresponding definitions, sectorial
   assignments, frequencies and references, which can be added to the
   user’s document as OH glossary.

   
OHS Initiatives - ideas and inspiration (OHS Inspiration catalogue)
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

   Changes and new initiatives are often hampered by the lack of vision
   to imagine that new ways can work or the inability to conceptualise a
   new approach. The OHS Initiative Catalogue is a resource that
   provides ideas and inspiration by describing OHS success stories. It
   shows different ways of overcoming barriers such as data-sharing,
   communication and strategic changes in OHS in many steps of the
   surveillance pathway. The Inspiration catalogue provides 15 examples
   of successfully implemented and functioning One Health Surveillance
   initiatives from all over the EU and aims to inspire new approaches
   in OHS in other MS.

   Link:   https://www.food.dtu.dk/english/-/media/Institutter/Foedevareinstituttet/Publikationer/Pub-2019/Rapport-One-Health-Integration-in-Surveillance.ashx?la=da   


OH Surveillance Pathway Visualization
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

   Surveillance is a complex process with various activities and fluent
   “borders”. Gaining a high level view on surveillance activities is
   sometimes challenging, as many actors focus on their own small part
   in the surveillance pathway and subsequently anchor discussions on
   these specific parts. This is even more complicated if it comes to
   inter-sectorial or One Health surveillance. To facilitate efficient
   communication and discussions on surveillance and to ensure mutual
   understanding of the extent of systems and programmes, supportive
   tools or illustrations are needed. To be able to compare e.g.
   surveillance systems in different sectors, they need to be described
   in a similar way. The Surveillance Pathway Visualization is a new
   resource, illustrating the pathway and the flow of data, findings and
   actors along many OH surveillance programs. The OH Surveillance
   Pathway Visualization is not comprehensive and all steps do not apply
   to all types of surveillance in all sectors. However, it has been
   aligned with other ways of describing surveillance activities and
   does provide a proper tool to facilitate cross-sector communication.


Examples & Lessons learned
--------------------------

   Several ORION project partners carry out national pilot studies to
   test the Collaboration principles within a cross sectional approach.
   Findings from these pilot studies will be reported here.
