=========================================================
The Knowledge principle: Improving the OHS knowledge base
=========================================================



Purpose
-------

The Knowledge principle defines that better surveillance data
integration and interpretation needs efficient and continuous knowledge
exchange and joined knowledge evolution between all OH parties.

Therefore, the purpose of this principle is to provide surveillance
professionals and stakeholders with guidance on available knowledge
resources that may be used to foster an OH approach within their area of
work, or to increase the value of their sector-specific surveillance
reports for future OH analysis. The solutions and methods developed
within the ORION project supporting the adoption of this principle are
also accessible via the *One Health Surveillance Knowledge Hub,* a
web-based technical infrastructure that facilitates knowledge exchange
and joint knowledge generation within and across domains. Examples of
such knowledge resources are the inventory of existing European
surveillance systems for zoonoses, an inventory of statistical methods
and tools used within those surveillance systems as well as an online
handbook with guidance on implementation of national NGS infrastructure
for improved OH surveillance.


Scope
-----

The Knowledge principle focus on providing a resource to exchange
knowledge on

-  existing surveillance data collections

-  established methods for surveillance data analysis and interpretation

-  current methods for surveillance planning

-  experiences with implementation of new technologies supporting surveillance


Although many surveillance systems and data are already shared with EFSA
and ECDC, there are several additional national surveillance systems
that are not. The results from the these surveillance systems can be
difficult to access as reports are often only published in the national
language and not listed in scientific databases (e.g. PubMed).

Overall, the solutions & tools provided under the Knowledge principle
aim to collate and improve access to surveillance data, improve
knowledge of methods to interpret and analyse surveillance data and
elucidate new technologies supporting surveillance. Furthermore, each is
designed to be maintainable in a collaborative manner. Together, these
solutions and tools are expected to support cross-sector, as well as
within sector surveillance activities in the future.


Methods
-------

OH Knowledge Base – Surveillance systems
'''''''''''''''''''''''

   The OH Knowledge Base – Surveillance systems consist of:

   (1) an inventory of existing surveillance systems carried out in
   different countries including links to the literature or websites.
   The objective was to generate a comprehensive list of surveillance
   systems in the One Health approach. It was accomplished by
   collaboration between EJP ORION and EFSA/ECDC using similar
   terminology in describing the surveillance systems. The interface of
   the inventories provides users with easy and intuitive search
   functions. The first version is published at
   https://joerngethmann.shinyapps.io/EJPOrion_AHS.

   2) a database that provides an overview of the common statistical
   methods used for surveillance data within the EU. Furthermore, it
   also contains a selection of links to literature, sample calculations
   in R and software solutions on the internet recommended for
   surveillance data. This enables a comparison between the existing
   methods and the methods actually used in surveillance projects and
   inspires institutes to consider new data analytical methodologies.
   The first version is published at
   https://statmethods.shinyapps.io/toolsdatabase/.

   (3) a literature database gathering reports, scientific literature,
   and web resources. The collection of the literature is carried out
   using a literature database (Zotero,
   https://www.zotero.org/groups/2204615/ejp_orion_wp2epi_data_sources_surveillance_systems/library).
   As Zotero requires registration, contributors need to be invited.
   Nevertheless, to be able to access the resources without
   registration, the database will be accessible via the web
   applications too.


OH Knowledge Base - The Sequencing for Surveillance Handbook
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

   The Sequencing for Surveillance (SfS) Handbook is a web-based
   resource containing best practice advice and hands on experience for
   how to set up and use sequencing for surveillance in a OH-supporting
   manner . The handbook currently consists of the following sections:

-  public guidance documents from institutions such as EFSA and ECDC

-  descriptions of infrastructural solutions for sequencing and analysis

-  review of bioinformatics tools and pipelines used for analyzing and
      typing foodborne pathogens

-  databases and other resources needed to perform analyses for species
      specific analyses

-  guidance on how to use typing data for surveillance and outbreak
      detection, including clustering guidelines

..

   As part of the infrastructure and pipeline sections, the handbook
   will include guidelines on how institutions can best process their
   data and how data can be shared between institutions. In addition, we
   are creating a prototype analysis system for Listeria, which will
   serve as a test case for guidelines on how to analyze NGS data in a
   reproducible and reliable way.

   Link: https://nvi-handbook.readthedocs.io/

..

   This handbook will as part of the infrastructure and pipeline
   sections include guidelines on how institutions can best process
   their data and how data can be shared between institutions. In
   addition, we are creating a prototype analysis system for Listeria,
   which will serve as a test case for guidelines on how to analyze NGS
   data in a reproducible and reliable way.

   Link: https://nvi-handbook.readthedocs.io/


Examples & Lessons learned
--------------------------

   Several ORION project partners carry out national pilot studies to
   test methods from the Knowledge principle regarding usability within
   a cross sectional approach. Findings from these pilot studies will be
   reported here.
