==========================================================================
The Reporting principle: Supporting external communication of OHS outcomes
==========================================================================


Purpose
-------

The reporting principle defines that better surveillance data
integration and interpretation needs improved cross-sectorial OHS report
integration and harmonization. The resources provided within this
principle are meant to support the cross-sectorial harmonized
provisioning of metadata in OHS reports. Best practice examples will
illustrate how the adoption of corresponding guidelines help to create a
true OHS report, which is based on a joint analysis of cross-sectorial
surveillance outputs. It will also demonstrate that such joint reporting
supports the cross-sectorial understanding of contextual information in
future OHS reports.


Scope
-----

The resources provided within this principle are aimed at being
generically applicable for surveillance purposes in all OH sectors,
including those that were not directly involved in their development
e.g. the environmental sector. In addition they should be applicable to
all countries, geographic areas and administrative levels.


Methods
-------

Consensus Report Annotation Checklist (CRAC)
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

   To achieve OHS report harmonization we are proposing the
   establishment and adoption of a so called **“Consensus Report
   Annotation Checklist” (CRAC)**. The adoption of CRAC will allow all
   existing OHS metadata to be mapped to one concurrent schema, instead
   of cross-mapping metadata between several sectoral and institutional
   metadata systems as illustrated in Figure X. The implementation and
   comprehension of the CRAC will thereby cause minimal efforts for all
   involved parties.
   https://docs.google.com/document/d/116-_olJtIqdE2sMkyNWy_9wnSI-ciTCRyLaiA9aWLu0/edit?usp=sharing

   |image3|

Fig. 1: Schematic drawing of CRAC that is proposed to map and structure
metadata in OH surveillance reports. Orange arrows indicate the mapping
of metadata from federal/national systems (top) and
European/international stakeholders (bottom) systems to the proposed
CRAC.

National OHS Report Templates
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

   AMR & AMU - DTU

   Link



Examples & Lessons learned
--------------------------

   Several ORION project partners carry out national pilot studies to
   test the Reporting principles within a cross sectional approach.
   Findings from these pilot studies will be reported here.


.. |image3| image:: media/image2.png
   :width: 4.1033in
   :height: 2.70313in